Hello Friends
In this video we will learn how to implement partition
function in Quick sort
In the previous video we have learned about quick sort
and how it is performed on an array
To get it sorted we learnt that there are three
major steps in quick sort algorithm
First is to choose the pivot element which can be
any element
And then call the partition function which will bring the
pivot element to it sorted position and all elements
which are lesser than the pivot will be before the
pivot element and all the elements which are greater than
the pivot will be after the pivot in the array
and then we will repeat the process for all the
partitions
In this video we will learn how to implement partition
function of quick sort
so let us develope the code using this example array So we have
this array of size five so get it partitioned
We have to pass the array it's start and its end
to the partition function
Now declare the variable p index and initialise it to
start and let us choose the pivot element as
the last element of array
So int pivot equal to arr of end Also
declare I and it should be initialised to start of
the array But we will do that later
Now we have to compare i th element with pivot and
if I th element is lesser than pivot then
swap arr of I and arr of P Index and
increment P index
And here it is but since both are pointing to same location
No changes will occur Now we have two increment
P index so right P index plus plus
Next I should be incremented and the same process should
be repeated till we reached the end of the array
So we can put this code inside a for loop
for i equal to start I less than end
I plus plus so this will continue till we reach
the end of the array And when this loop is exhausted
we will have the sorted position of the pivot pointed
by P Index so we can swap arr of end
and arr of P index
Now we can return the position of the pivot that
is P index to the calling function So the return
type of function should be integer
So this is how the partition function of quick sort can be implemented.